>> Evan You: So
putting everything together,
this is putting the render function side
and our reactivity lessons together.
Each component has a render function.
And this render function, when we run it,
it's essentially wrapped inside an auto
run that we implemented earlier.
So that's why when it renders,
we're collecting all these dependencies by
invoking these getters
on our data properties.
And then we have this additional concept,
kind of watcher,
that each component has
a watcher that's responsible for
collecting dependencies, cleaning them up,
and notifying everything.
And the component render
functions returns Virtual DOM.
So you see the loop here because
we're inside Autorun where we render.
The render will be called over and
over again, whenever the property that
we depend on viewing the render changes.
So each component has sort
of it's own Autorun loop.
And a component tree consists
of many of these components,
each as a dependency boundary, so each
component tracks its own dependencies.
So, this is in fact an advantage
when you have a huge component tree,
because you can have the data
dependencies change.
Your data may be mutated from anywhere,
but
because each component tracks its own
dependencies inside a big component tree,
we precisely know which components are
affected by arbitrary data manipulation.
So, we never over render, we don't
have the problem of having too many
components being rerendered unnecessarily,
because we have a precise dependency
tracking system in place.
So, [COUGH] that's an architectural
advantage that gets rid of
some sort of optimization
efforts that you need to do in
a more top down based rendering
model that React uses.
But we also pay the overhead of converting
these data into getters and setters.
This has a slight overhead as well.
So it's not like a silver bullet,
there's pros and cons on both sides, but
in general both approaches are viable and
people have built huge apps in both React
and View, so, in practice, the difference
would only show up in very extreme cases.